skills/manim-skill/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: manim-skill
description: Create mathematical animations with Manim Community Edition. Generates distinctive, production-grade  animations for math concepts, graphs, geometric transformations, 3D scenes, and educational visualizations. Use when user wants to animate equations, illustrate proofs, visualize algorithms, create math explainers, or produce 3Blue1Brown-style videos.
---

This skill guides creation of distinctive, publication-quality mathematical animations that avoid generic "AI slop" aesthetics. Implement real working Manim code with exceptional attention to timing, composition, and visual storytelling and render it into a video.

The user provides a concept to visualize: theorem or algorithm from paper, blog post, social media post, conversation with ChatGPT etc. They may include context about the audience, style preferences, or specific moments to emphasize.

## Workflow Overview

```
Plan → Code → Render → Iterate
```

### Phase 1: Plan

**If the user has already used plan mode in claude code or provided detailed requirements, skip to Phase 2. Otherwise, you MUST carefully plan the video structure before writing code.**

Before writing any Manim code, plan the video structure:

1. **Break into chapters/scenes** - Each scene should focus on ONE concept
2. **Plan visual design** - Make intentional choices for unique, engaging visuals:

   **Composition:**
   - Reveal order: Build complexity gradually (simple → detailed)
   - Spatial hierarchy: Use positioning to show relationships (above = builds on, side-by-side = comparison, center = focus)
   - Eye flow: Guide attention left→right, top→bottom, or radially outward

   **Animation timing:**
   - Reveals (Write, Create): 0.5-1s for simple, 1.5-2s for complex
   - Transforms (morph, move): 0.3-0.5s for snappy, 1-1.5s for contemplative
   - Emphasis (highlight, scale): 0.2-0.3s quick pulse
   - Pauses: 0.5s between related items, 1-2s after key insights
   - Vary the rhythm to maintain interest

   **Emphasis techniques:**
   - Color shift: Flash or transition to accent color
   - Scale pulse: Briefly grow/shrink to draw attention
   - Isolation: Fade/dim everything except the focus
   - Zoom: Move + scale for detail examination
   - Surround: Temporary highlight ring, box, or arrow

   **Memorability check:**
   - What is the ONE visual viewers will remember?
   - Where is the "aha moment"? How will you visually punctuate it?
   - What makes this distinct from a textbook diagram?

   **Color palette:**
   - The default palette is a starting point—customize for your topic
   - Consider: warm tones for organic, cool for technical, earth tones for natural
   - Use one or two accent colors prominently, not all equally
   - Adjust background slightly for different moods

   **Avoid:**
   - Everything appearing at once (reveal sequentially)
   - Same duration for every animation (vary timing)
   - All objects centered (use spatial hierarchy)
   - No pauses after insights (let concepts land)

### Phase 2: Code

Write Manim Community Edition code in the current directory or path specified by the user. Follow these guidelines:

#### Critical: Use Manim CE, NOT ManimGL

```python
# CORRECT - Manim Community Edition imports
from manim import *
import numpy as np

# Configure background
config.background_color = "#0D1117"

class MyScene(Scene):
    def construct(self):
        # Your animation code
        pass
```

**DO NOT use ManimGL patterns:**
- No `from manimlib import *`
- No `self.embed()` or interactive features
- No `self.camera.frame` manipulations (use `self.camera` differently in CE)

#### Code Structure

1. **Shared helpers at top** - Colors, utility functions
2. **One class per scene** - Name scenes descriptively: `Scene1_Introduction`, `Scene2_DerivePDE`
3. **Use sections within scenes** - Comment blocks for organization

```python
import os
os.environ['PATH'] = '/Library/TeX/texbin:' + os.environ.get('PATH', '')

from manim import *
import numpy as np

# example palette
BACKGROUND = "#0D1117"
BLUE = "#1E88E5"
YELLOW = "#FFC107"
GREEN = "#43A047"
RED = "#E53935"
PURPLE = "#8E44AD"
WHITE = "#FFFFFF"
GREY = "#CCCCCC"

config.background_color = BACKGROUND

## Scene1_Introduction
class Scene1_Introduction(Scene):
    def construct(self):
        ## Scene1_Introduction.title
        title = Text("My Topic", font_size=48, color=BLUE)
        self.play(Write(title))
        self.wait(1)

        ## Scene1_Introduction.fadeout
        self.play(FadeOut(title))
```

#### Best Practices

- **Stay consistent** with any plans, links, or texts already provided to the user
- Use `self.play()` for animations, `self.wait()` for pauses
- Prefer `Write()` for text, `Create()` for shapes
- Use `VGroup()` to organize related objects
- End scenes with `FadeOut()` for smooth transitions
- Add `self.wait()` after key moments for viewer comprehension

### Phase 3: Render

Use `manim` CLI to render scenes. Multiple scenes can be rendered in parallel with one command.

```bash
manim -q<quality> [--media_dir <output_dir>] <script.py> Scene1 Scene2 Scene3 ...
```

**Quality flags:**
- `-ql` - Low quality (480p15, fastest for testing—use by default)
- `-qh` - High quality (1080p60, only when user explicitly requests)

**Output location:**
`<media_dir>/videos/<script_name>/<quality>/SceneName.mp4`

Default media_dir is `~/media` or `./media`.

**If any scene fails:** Read the error, fix the code, re-render only the failed scenes.

#### Stitch scenes with ffmpeg

Once all scenes render successfully, combine them:

```bash
# Create concat list
cat > /tmp/concat_list.txt << 'EOF'
file '/path/to/Scene1_Intro.mp4'
file '/path/to/Scene2_Main.mp4'
file '/path/to/Scene3_Conclusion.mp4'
EOF

# Combine into final video (name by theme, e.g., fourier_transform_final.mp4)
ffmpeg -y -f concat -safe 0 -i /tmp/concat_list.txt -c copy <theme>_final.mp4
```

### Phase 4: Iterate on User Feedback

Launch the viewer for user to review and provide feedback:

```bash
python3 tools/video_viewer.py <theme>_final.mp4 /path/to/Scene1.mp4 /path/to/Scene2.mp4 ...
```

When user provides feedback:
1. Identify which scenes need changes
2. Modify the code
3. Re-render only affected scenes
4. Re-stitch the final video
5. Run the viewer command again

Commit message:

user can now specify claude code to add subtitles to the video

skills/manim-skill/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: manim-skill
description: Create mathematical animations with Manim Community Edition. Generates distinctive, production-grade  animations for math concepts, graphs, geometric transformations, 3D scenes, and educational visualizations. Use when user wants to animate equations, illustrate proofs, visualize algorithms, create math explainers, or produce 3Blue1Brown-style videos.
---

This skill guides creation of distinctive, publication-quality mathematical animations that avoid generic "AI slop" aesthetics. Implement real working Manim code with exceptional attention to timing, composition, and visual storytelling and render it into a video.

The user provides a concept to visualize: theorem or algorithm from various sources such as paper, blog post, social media post or conversation with ChatGPT etc. They may include context about the audience, style preferences, or specific moments to emphasize.

## Workflow Overview

```
Plan → Code → Render → Iterate
```

### Phase 1: Plan

**If the user has already used plan mode in claude code or provided detailed requirements, skip to Phase 2. Otherwise, you MUST carefully plan the video structure before writing code.**

Before writing any Manim code, plan the video structure:

1. **Break into chapters/scenes** - Each scene should focus on ONE concept
2. **Plan visual design** - Make intentional choices for unique, engaging visuals:

   **Composition:**
   - Reveal order: Build complexity gradually (simple → detailed)
   - Spatial hierarchy: Use positioning to show relationships (above = builds on, side-by-side = comparison, center = focus)
   - Eye flow: Guide attention left→right, top→bottom, or radially outward

   **Animation timing:**
   - Reveals (Write, Create): 0.5-1s for simple, 1.5-2s for complex
   - Transforms (morph, move): 0.3-0.5s for snappy, 1-1.5s for contemplative
   - Emphasis (highlight, scale): 0.2-0.3s quick pulse
   - Pauses: 0.5s between related items, 1-2s after key insights
   - Vary the rhythm to maintain interest

   **Emphasis techniques:**
   - Color shift: Flash or transition to accent color
   - Scale pulse: Briefly grow/shrink to draw attention
   - Isolation: Fade/dim everything except the focus
   - Zoom: Move + scale for detail examination
   - Surround: Temporary highlight ring, box, or arrow

   **Memorability check:**
   - What is the ONE visual viewers will remember?
   - Where is the "aha moment"? How will you visually punctuate it?
   - What makes this distinct from a textbook diagram?

   **Color palette:**
   - The default palette is a starting point—customize for your topic
   - Consider: warm tones for organic, cool for technical, earth tones for natural
   - Use one or two accent colors prominently, not all equally
   - Adjust background slightly for different moods

   **Subtitle styling (if user requested subtitles):**
   - Choose a font that complements the video's tone (e.g., clean sans-serif for technical, elegant serif for formal)
   - Match subtitle color to palette—white with subtle shadow works on dark backgrounds
   - Consider font size for readability (24-28pt typical for 1080p)
   - Plan styling parameters for the ffmpeg burn-in step: `FontName`, `FontSize`, `PrimaryColour`, `OutlineColour`

   **Avoid:**
   - Everything appearing at once (reveal sequentially)
   - Same duration for every animation (vary timing)
   - All objects centered (use spatial hierarchy)
   - No pauses after insights (let concepts land)

### Phase 2: Code

Write Manim Community Edition code in the current directory or path specified by the user. Follow these guidelines:

#### Critical: Use Manim CE, NOT ManimGL

```python
# CORRECT - Manim Community Edition imports
from manim import *
import numpy as np

# Configure background
config.background_color = "#0D1117"

class MyScene(Scene):
    def construct(self):
        # Your animation code
        pass
```

**DO NOT use ManimGL patterns:**
- No `from manimlib import *`
- No `self.embed()` or interactive features
- No `self.camera.frame` manipulations (use `self.camera` differently in CE)

#### Code Structure

1. **Shared helpers at top** - Colors, utility functions
2. **One class per scene** - Name scenes descriptively: `Scene1_Introduction`, `Scene2_DerivePDE`
3. **Use sections within scenes** - Comment blocks for organization

```python
import os
os.environ['PATH'] = '/Library/TeX/texbin:' + os.environ.get('PATH', '')

from manim import *
import numpy as np

# example palette
BACKGROUND = "#0D1117"
BLUE = "#1E88E5"
YELLOW = "#FFC107"
GREEN = "#43A047"
RED = "#E53935"
PURPLE = "#8E44AD"
WHITE = "#FFFFFF"
GREY = "#CCCCCC"

config.background_color = BACKGROUND

## Scene1_Introduction
class Scene1_Introduction(Scene):
    def construct(self):
        ## Scene1_Introduction.title
        title = Text("My Topic", font_size=48, color=BLUE)
        self.play(Write(title))
        self.wait(1)

        ## Scene1_Introduction.fadeout
        self.play(FadeOut(title))
```

#### Best Practices

- **Stay consistent** with any plans, links, or texts already provided to the user
- Use `self.play()` for animations, `self.wait()` for pauses
- Prefer `Write()` for text, `Create()` for shapes
- Use `VGroup()` to organize related objects
- End scenes with `FadeOut()` for smooth transitions
- Add `self.wait()` after key moments for viewer comprehension

#### Subtitles (Optional)

**If the user requests subtitles**, add them to your code:

- Use `add_subcaption()` for every key moment
- Keep bottom 15% clear for subtitles—avoid placing text or key visuals in `DOWN` edge areas

```python
self.add_subcaption("Introducing our topic", duration=2)
self.play(Write(title))
self.play(FadeOut(title), subcaption="Let's begin", subcaption_duration=1)
```

### Phase 3: Render

Use `manim` CLI to render scenes. Multiple scenes can be rendered in parallel with one command.

```bash
manim -q<quality> [--media_dir <output_dir>] <script.py> Scene1 Scene2 Scene3 ...
```

**Quality flags:**
- `-ql` - Low quality (480p15, fastest for testing—use by default)
- `-qh` - High quality (1080p60, only when user explicitly requests)

**Output location:**
`<media_dir>/videos/<script_name>/<quality>/SceneName.mp4`

Default media_dir is `./media`.

**If any scene fails:** Read the error, fix the code, re-render only the failed scenes.

#### Stitch scenes with ffmpeg

Once all scenes render successfully, combine them:

```bash
# Create concat list
cat > /tmp/concat_list.txt << 'EOF'
file '/path/to/Scene1_Intro.mp4'
file '/path/to/Scene2_Main.mp4'
file '/path/to/Scene3_Conclusion.mp4'
EOF

# Combine into final video (name by theme, e.g., fourier_transform_final.mp4)
ffmpeg -y -f concat -safe 0 -i /tmp/concat_list.txt -c copy <theme>_final.mp4
```

#### Burn in subtitles (optional)

If you used `add_subcaption()`, burn the `.srt` file into the final video:

```bash
ffmpeg -i <theme>_final.mp4 -vf "subtitles=<theme>_final.srt:force_style='FontSize=24,FontName=Arial'" <theme>_subtitled.mp4
```

### Phase 4: Iterate on User Feedback

Launch the viewer for user to review and provide feedback:

```bash
python3 tools/video_viewer.py <theme>_final.mp4 /path/to/Scene1.mp4 /path/to/Scene2.mp4 ...
```

When user provides feedback:
1. Identify which scenes need changes
2. Modify the code
3. Re-render only affected scenes
4. Re-stitch the final video
5. Run the viewer command again
